---
layout: post
title: My Experience at Bloc
---

College was a great experience for me. Going to school in the heart of Chicago was life changing. It set me in a new environment. As a kid from the suburbs, tall buildings, vivid nights lights, compacted city blocks, and buses was like going into a new country. Also, having to walk blocks just to get to class was a dreadful excercise especially in the winter months yet certainly will I look back on. Facility was world class and the many students who filled the campuses gave it so much life and energy. Library study sessions surrounded by the ambitious, young, and hopeful is always going to be cherished. And then you have the classroom. Big lecture halls. College professors teaching advanced topics with so much expertise. But then I switched to Bloc, a complete 180. No classroom. No teacher. Just you, your laptop and your mentor in a quiet and lonesome room. Why did I do it? For one reason and that was to gain real world experience, something I thought university was lacking in. So much for complex theories and the what ifs. When I was looking for alternative schools since university would have forced me to switch my major and restart as a freshmen (another 3 to 4 years wasted!), I was specifically looking for practical learning, something that goes straight to the point! Bloc stood out to me. They said you would be building websites/applications from scratch with a mentor by your side. To some, this may not settle well since they didnt offer a degree. But for me, this was it. And to Bloc I went, and to Bloc so far have I given the credit because this was what was lacking in the real world: real world learning experience!

So far, in my view, Bloc has been a success. It has been life changing in a sense. The cirriculumn is great. Ever since I started, the learning has been non-stop. It is a bootcamp so this is expected.  Everything you learn at Bloc, you put to use. It is not like university where you are taught back to the theories again. It is real life senarios and Bloc gives you all the knowledge, informations and tools to tackle whatever task the web development world throws at you, well at least so far! So far, I was taken through a website called Bloc Jams. It is a music player. A bit basic but a great starting point! You can't imagine all the little bits of code that goes into one little feature such as "animating" the play and pause button as you hover over it. To someone like my past self, you don't think much about it. You don't even imagine how it works. But to web developers and programmers, it is a complex, yet fascinating task. And each day, Bloc has taken me through the development of a music playing website. Each day, a new and specific feature has been learned. By the end of the project, it is completely functional and the best thing is, I learned how to build it. Now I want to build my own stuff!